# Utilizing-Linear-Models-for-Predicting-Student-Grades

In recent years, machine learning algorithms have become increasingly popular in educational research to predict student academic performance. This report presents an investigation into the use of linear models to predict student academic performance, utilizing five different linear models: linear regression, elastic net regression, ridge regression, lasso regression, and principle component analysis (PCA). The dataset used consists of 32 predictor variables and a target variable representing the final grade for 395 students, obtained from the UCI Machine Learn- ing Repository. The data was split into training and testing sets, and descriptive statistics and data visualization were employed to explore the data. The categorical variables were encoded from their original data type of character. The R-squared value was calculated for each model, and other statistical machine learning tech- niques were also utilized for variable selection and exploring the significance of the predictors, such as F-tests. Finally, the models were compared based on the root mean squared error (RSME). The findings suggest that linear models, partic- ularly elastic net regression, can be effective in predicting student grades, while principle component analysis may not be the best fit for this specific dataset. The findings of this study have implications for educators and administrators looking to identify predictors of student success and inform targeted interventions to improve academic outcomes.
